README.md, before:

# 🧮 Loan Calculator & Analysis
## 📘 Overview
This project demonstrates practical financial analysis using Excel — showing the complete journey of a loan from start to finish.
It’s a valuable example of data-driven decision-making in personal finance, lending, and credit management contexts.

## 🎯 Objectives
- Build an automated Excel model for loan repayment tracking.
- Analyze how payment structure changes across the loan period.
- Calculate total interest paid and visualize cumulative progress.
- Strengthen financial modeling and data visualization skills using Excel.
- Support better financial decision-making through clear insights.
  
## 📊 Questions Answered:
1. How much total interest will be paid over the lifetime of the loan?
2. How long does it take before the majority of each payment goes toward principal rather than interest?
3. How does changing the payment frequency (e.g., monthly vs. biweekly) affect total interest paid?
4. How does the loan term (years) affect total repayment cost?
5. What is the cumulative principal and interest paid after one year?

## 🧰 Tools & Skills Demonstrated
- Microsoft Excel: Formulas, conditional formatting, and structured tables
- Financial Functions: PMT, IPMT, PPMT, IF, ROUND
- Data Analysis Skills: Trend analysis, cumulative tracking, and what-if scenario evaluation

 ## ✅ Conclusion & Future Enhancements
This project provided valuable hands-on experience in financial data analysis, Excel automation, and data storytelling.
It demonstrates how structured data and formulas can turn raw financial inputs into meaningful insights.

Future Enhancements:
- Add interactive loan comparison scenarios
- Create a Power BI dashboard for visualization

Commit message:

Enhance README with project preview and details
Added a preview image of the main Excel file and updated the README to enhance project overview and objectives.

README.md, after:

# 🧮 Loan Calculator & Analysis
## 📘 Overview
This project demonstrates practical financial analysis using Excel — showing the complete journey of a loan from start to finish.
It’s a valuable example of data-driven decision-making in personal finance, lending, and credit management contexts.


## 🎯 Objectives
- Build an automated Excel model for loan repayment tracking.
- Analyze how payment structure changes across the loan period.
- Calculate total interest paid and visualize cumulative progress.
- Strengthen financial modeling and data visualization skills using Excel.
- Support better financial decision-making through clear insights.
  
## 📊 Questions Answered:
1. How much total interest will be paid over the lifetime of the loan?
2. How long does it take before the majority of each payment goes toward principal rather than interest?
3. How does changing the payment frequency (e.g., monthly vs. biweekly) affect total interest paid?
4. How does the loan term (years) affect total repayment cost?
5. What is the cumulative principal and interest paid after one year?

Here’s a preview of the main Excel file. You can download the full version directly from this repository.
<img width="1034" height="465" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/53ff11cf-e7a4-471f-9f38-7e9eaac6e773" />


## 🧰 Tools & Skills Demonstrated
- Microsoft Excel: Formulas, conditional formatting, and structured tables
- Financial Functions: PMT, IPMT, PPMT, IF, ROUND
- Data Analysis Skills: Trend analysis, cumulative tracking, and what-if scenario evaluation

 ## ✅ Conclusion & Future Enhancements
This project provided valuable hands-on experience in financial data analysis, Excel automation, and data storytelling.
It demonstrates how structured data and formulas can turn raw financial inputs into meaningful insights.

Future Enhancements:
- Add interactive loan comparison scenarios
- Create a Power BI dashboard for visualization
